.\" rduty man page
.\" Process this file with: groff -man -Tascii
.\" man page originally written by  Gabriele Giorgetti <g.giorgetti@amail.com>
.TH CPUSPEEDY 1 "Jan 2, 2020"
.SH NAME
rduty \- A simple and easy to use program to control the speed and the 
voltage of CPUs on the fly.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \fBrduty\fR
[\fISPEED VALUE\fR] or
[\fIOPTION\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cpuspeedy
is a script written in Python which allows you to change the clock speed and 
voltage of the CPUs. It can use the Linux kernel sysfs interface (v2.5/v2.6), 
the CPUFreq 24 API (/proc/sys/cpu..., v2.4), or the CPUFREQ_PROC 
(/proc/cpufreq). All you need is a supported CPU and a kernel which has support 
for one of the interfeces listed above. cpuspeedy is just a user space program, 
so it will work on every processor supported by the kernel's CPUFreq driver. 
Use it and you should save battery consumption and reduce the temperature of 
your laptop.
.SH SPEED VALUES
.TP
\fB[numeric value]\fr \fB[unit]\fR (unit must be: Khz,MHz or Ghz)
.TP
\fBmin\fr, \fBminimum\fR
.TP
\fBlow\fr, \fBslow\fR
.TP
\fBmed\fr, \fBmedium\fR
.TP
\fBhigh\fr, \fBfast\fR
.TP
\fBmax\fr, \fBmaximum\fR
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-s\fr, \fB\-\-status\fR
print infos about the CPU speed and temperature
.TP
\fB\-f\fr, \fB\-\-freqs\fR
print a list of available frequencies (2.6.X only).
.TP
\fB\-d\fr, \fB\-\-dump\fR
dump infos about available interface if any
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
display this help and exit
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
output version information and exit
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
To have a list of available frequencies (Kernel 2.6.x only):
.LP
cpuspeedy --freqs
.LP
To set the cpu speed to a specifc frequency value in MHz:
.LP
cpuspeedy 800 Mhz
.LP
To set the cpu speed to a specifc frequency value in GHz:
.LP
cpuspeedy 1.0 Ghz
.LP
To set the cpu speed to a minimum value:
.LP
cpuspeedy minimum
.LP
To have infos about the CPU speed and the temperature:
.LP
cpuspeedy --status
.LP
.LP
.SH AVAILABILTY   
The latest version of this program can be found at
http://cpuspeedy.sourceforge.net
.SH BUGS
See the BUGS file in the cpuspeedy source package for a list of known bugs.
Report bugs to <gabriele_giorgetti@tin.it>
.SH AUTHOR
cpuspeedy is written by Gabriele Giorgetti <gabriele_giorgetti@tin.it>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2004 Gabriele Giorgetti
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
